So in the last couple of lectures we created a couple of shortcodes. Bıt then we mention that shortcodes
should also be in a separate plugin and you should not define any shortcode in your theme.
So let's create a new plugin for shortcodes like we did for a custom field. But this time it will be a lot
easier because we've done before.
So let's go to the plugins folder. Let's actually copy and paste the metaboxes plugin folder. And
it will take some time because we have the node_modules.
Sorry, we have the node_modules
folder which is a bit large.
So now we have it. Let's call it "_themename-shortcodes"
now let's go to Visual Studio Code
and let's add this folder in our workspace.
So plugins and shortcodes. And leti's go to package.json  and here we'll have to change the name of the
plugin.
So "shortcodes" and you don't have to change anything else. In the gulpfile
we will listen the styles path change this to "bundle". In shortcodes we will add styles for the HTML components
that we create.
So we'll have styles that we have to be enqueued in the frontend and we probably we won't have admin styles
So let's create a bundle file. And same also for the "scripts".
And I think that's it. Let's save. Let's go to the source folder and
rename this to bundle.
And this.
And then in includes let's remove this file,
the metaboxes file. And in enqueue scripts we will have to enqueue in the frontend not in the admin, so let's
change the action to
"wp_enqueue_scripts". And we can also remove the "admin"  from the function name, here
and here. We also don't need this if condition. And let's remove "admin" from the handle and change this to
"bundle". And same for the "css".
And I think that will do it. And we'll see you now when we try it.
We also have the index.php.
Maybe you need to change this to the "Shortcodes" and remove the "metaboxes".
So I think that will be fine for now.
Let's go back to the theme and we'll have to change some stuff here as well.
Right?
We'll have to go to the gulpfile and add the new plugin here.
So when we bundle our theme the plugins will be bundled automatically.
So "_themename-shortcodes".
Also we need to go to the lib and include plugins. And we need to include this plugin as well.
So let's copy this and add another one. And this one will be "shortcodes".
Well let's go back now to the wp-admim. And now we have the message that we have a plugin that needs to
be activated.
So let's do that.
And now we're having our plugin activated.
So let's now copy the code the shortcodes code from the theme to our plugin. In functions.php.
So before doing that let's create a folder in the includes, in our plugin all right not in the theme.
And let's call it shortcodes.
We need to do some folders just for organization. And inside shortcodes we'll create another folder. And this one will be
called button. And this folder will contain all the files for the button. So we can have a PHP file that
defines the shortcode.
Let's call it button.php and you will probably also have some styles for this button.
Right?
So let's create a new file button.scss. Now let's copy the shortcode and let's open PHP and paste. And let's
say your buttons will have a class "_themename_button". And then your button.scss you will style this
class
So let's say we've a "border-radius" something
So what we need to do now is we need to include the button styles in the bundle.scss which is
in the source folder.
And you also need to include the shortcode function for the button in the index.php.
You should now know that any code that you would like to run in your plugin should be included in index
index.php.
So let's first open a new tab in the terminal and in Windows you can open a new cmd window.
And let's change to our plugin.
And let's run "npm start".
And now we should have ous CSS and JavaScript compiled in the dist folder.
So let's now go to the source folder and the bundle.scss.
And let's include the styles for the button, right?
So we will import and then we are in the source folder and the assets folder and the scss folder,
so we need to go up three times and then we need to go to includes,right? And shortcodes
and button, button the folder and then button.scss file. So let's save and let's see the dist.
And now we have the styles for the button.
So great. So let's see how to import the button shortcode function here.
We can just simply use include_once() and that will be in includes and shortcodes and buttons or button
and then button.php.
But when you define shortcode inside of plugins you must add them in an action called init():
I think we've used thatbefore. And this action will be called when WordPress is initialized.
So because plugins are loaded in an early stage in WordPress, so you have to wait for WordPress to load using the
init() function and then define your shortcodes.
Let's give it a function and let's call it "_themename__pluginname_init".
And then inside this function we can create our shortcodes. So inside this function we will include the
code for the shortcode creation.
Right? So let's save now. Let's see this page. We now have our shortcode working but it looks like we have a
problem with our CSS file and JavaScript. And ok we did not change the "metaboxes" here to "shortcodes"
So let's go to enqueue-assets in our plugin and change this to "shortcodes". Let's save now.
And now we don't have any errors here. And let's inspect this. And as you can see we have the "border-radius".
So I think that's a very good organization for our shortcodes.
We have a folder that will contain any files belonging to this shortcode so we can have here
also JavaScript files and then we can include these JavaScript files in the bundle.js.
And I think we'll have an example where we will have to do that.
And whenever we add a folder here we should also include it in the index.php in the init() action.
Let's finally
go to functions.php in the theme. And let's remove this icon
shortcode.
I just did it for the nested shortcode example, so let's ignore it for
new. And let's in the next lecture create a couple of more shortcodes which should be a little more complicated
than the button that we created.
So see you in the next lecture.